OpenGL is one of the exciting courses I have ever learned. In the first week of the course, I had no clue what I would learn in this course. I thought it was probably related to some graphics. Later, I learned the definition that it is a cross-language, cross-platform application programming interface for rendering 2D and 3D vector graphics, and it is a graphic API. 
 
I used a plane in several assignments, and I changed the plane as a deck for my final project: I decided to add more effects to the scene. So, my final project, the 3D scene, is a wooden deck and sky in the night with some starts. After many experiments with my code and taking the help of resources, I designed this 3D scene. The challenging part of this project is working hard to add several.CPP files, functions, and objects. To create these, I watched many videos on youTube. The main libraries which were used: GLFW, GLAD, GLM. STB image loader is used for importing in PNG format.
 
Render API: VBO/VAO
Shader creation, compilation, linking, setting uniform, and the shader class handles the manual
binding render API. The pointers are automated through the APT class to the object VBO/VAO. It would help if you created a directory with GLSL code files (this would be the equivalent of passing the shader src in the form of a string, but the shader class handles that). Next, we need to initialize, compile, and link it to provide the file paths to the GLSL code on initialization. Finally, predefined data types for uniforms can be set, and a binding method is provided. I tried to use Phong lighting in my scene, but I am unsure how successful I am. 
 

The entity component system can be used to organize a scene configuration with models and their custom transformations attached to a single object that can be bound (set to active) to draw it all in one go. In this final project, the camera class has a function to calculate and return the view-projection matrix, and internally, the calculation is handled. The camera position can be updated and accessed through the methods.
Use the view-projection matrix in shader uniforms to transform it into camera space and view it in perspective. The function calls such as glDrawArrays() with specific flags/parameters like GL_TRIANGLES or GL_LINES is used in OpenGL. I kept my program organized and used many functions in it. I would have added more shapes and effects and ended up with half-finished code. However, the lesson learned is to practice and give more time to understand the concepts.
